I am an Assistant Professor in Data science and Health informatics in the Department of Information Science at the University of North Texas. I am the director of the UNT Intelligent Information Access Lab (IIA). My research interests include applied data science, data quality, information retrieval, natural language processing, and text mining. One of my main research objectives is to build high-performance and reliable intelligent systems by improving data quality and developing effective machine learning models. My research focuses on high-risk areas that directly affect people's daily lives (such as healthcare, legal, and cyber security) and I am passionate about developing useful AI systems for humans. In addition to data quality, I am also interested in applying computation methods such as machine learning and natural language processing to solve information problems.

I have co-authored more than 50 publications in academic venues in both Information Science and Computer Science, including top journals such as Information Sciences, Information Processing & Management, IEEE Transactions on Reliability, and others. I am currently the co-editor of The Electronic Library, the guest editor of two peer-reviewed journals Frontiers in Big Data and Information Discovery & Delivery and am co-editing two special issues on data quality. I have also been a reviewer for 20 different journals and a PC member of international conferences such as IEEE ICSC, IEEE COMPSAC, JCDL, and others.  I am an active member of academic associations such as ACM, IEEE, SIGIR, ASIS&T, and AAAI. I will coordinate two workshops on JCDL 2023.

I received my Ph.D. in Information Science (Data Science Concentration) from the UNT Department of Information Science in January 2022. Prior to that, I received my Master's degree in Information Science from Wuhan University, China in 2017 and my Bachelor's degree in Information Management from Central China Normal University in 2014. During my Ph.D. study at UNT, I worked with Dr.Jiangping Chen and Dr.Junhua Ding. During my graduate study at Wuhan University, I worked with Dr.Wei Lu in the Information Retrieval and Knowledge Mining Laboratory. I have participated in several research projects funded by the NSF, NSA, NIH, NSFC, NSSFC, and others. 

I am recruiting prospective Ph.D. students, master students, and undergraduate students in Computer Science, Data Science, Information Science, Mathematics, and other related fields. If you are interested in my research areas and exploring potential collaboration, please feel free to contact me.